hey folks this is Terry we're here with
the November 13th edition of the ipfs
local and online collaboration call
there are probably a few words I missed
in there somewhere but lovely to see
everyone so we are starting off today
with a demo from Lyta which I will let
him describe what he's done so feel free
to uh steal the screen
you
this will be a very brief and mostly
like apartment for discussion we've been
always talking about hosting website on
idea fires but what about co-hosting if
there's a website I want to contribute
my bandwidth to to keep it alive or I
want to sort of like us like follow a
website there's a new version new update
how can i maybe precache those new
versions so those versions are available
to me instantly because my local node
already has them or maybe other people
in my local network may benefit from
having access to those new versions so
instead of like going too deep too soon
in low level parts of ipfs Park we've
been thinking what can we do with
existing api's so we have this concept
of NFS which is immutable file system is
basically an abstraction there's a
pretty good pretty good tutorial on that
if anyone owns to learn look at the
other products cool tutorial yeah I
wonder who made that it it's a great
carry on okay so if you want to learn on
the details after the fest there's a
tutorial but basically we been thinking
oh that's a kind of the highest
abstraction level API we have right now
it's very familiar to people it exposes
a file system like abstractions and we
already build this with file screen in
our web UI we let you browse those EMFs
resources so it looks like file system
there's a file that's directory um so
that's when we
we started figuring out okay so can we
build something using existing
primitives to simply make it easier for
[Music]
co-hosting website without the need for
installing something bigger like ipfs
cluster like ipfs cluster is great but
not everyone wants to run a cluster of
ideas nodes most of people run just like
IP first companion and I default desktop
and that's it right so the idea was oh
can we create something much simpler but
targeted at those users who go to some
very good tutorial or maybe Wikipedia
mirror or some blog they like and they
want to simply help contribute bandwidth
and storage to that so we came up with
very simple spec for basically dots and
if you go that lip the meta repositories
in ipfs Shipyard under co-hosting people
I'll post a link later in the notes but
basically the tech is very simple it's a
set of conventions for storing those
websites on NFS and a set for basic
operations such as adding removing
listening updating snapshots maybe
changing co-hosting type and then when
you run out of space you can prune older
snapshots and basically if you look at
this it's like super super simple it's
just creating directories and removing
directories and checking if directory
exists so if I create a directory for
some site ID and site ID is basically
either domain name or IP NS a key so
when you create a directory for a
specific side the co-hosting simply will
fetch that website and kind of import it
to your local node and the
there are commands for updating
snapshots and there are two ways of
those snapshot the two types of those
snapshots so one type is lazy which
means you will simply add this websites
to co-host Inc locally but you don't
fetch entire thing you just keep like a
pointer and if you go to that directory
here let's say if I go to co-hosting as
a fool but let's say it's lazy or the
purpose of this and there's some other
stuff here only the stuff I actually
Traverse will be fetched that's why it's
called lazy it does not present I think
an option
the second type is full it just the
moment you add it to co-hosting it
fetches entire thing why we have those
two types of hosting in this initial
proposal because I want to emphasize
it's an experiment so why we have two
types one not every it's targeted to
regular users and basically
consumer-grade like laptops lady phones
don't have that much space
the space is cheaper but not that much
of the space is available in local
machine so let's say you go to Wikipedia
Mueller and you want to co-host that
here's the edge case the English
Wikipedia mirror on ipfs takes 650
gigabyte and a lot of people don't have
disk of size that would be able to fetch
it to keep basically contain that amount
of data however still people don't
really care about maybe people don't
care about like entire you should
speaking of people mostly care about
pages they visit and that's perfectly
aligned with how ipfs works the blocks
the pages you visited our cache in a
local activist not already that's built
into ipfs so the idea is to simply
leverage the fact that things that you
absolutely fast
our implicitly pimp which means those
things won't be garbage collected when
you you know starts running out of space
so the only thing that lazy co-hosting
does it creates those pointers in
amethyst to assure if you visit a page
on Wikipedia that page will be
implicitly kept around until you decide
to manually remove it from our house and
that's the difference the full full
snapshot is when your snapshot entire
thing and it's all the blocks are fresh
the moment you add a page to your
co-hosting setup so I've been talking a
little bit about specs and the
high-level concept but we actually have
a common line tool can I just can I just
interrupt with a quick question so the
person who's making a directory called
co-hosting is the person who wants to
co-host a website or the person who
makes the website originally has to say
I'm setting this up so that it will be
easy for people the co-host
oh the person that is setting up the
website does not have to do anything
okay it's just people who want to
contribute can use this set of
conventions and the command line tool I
will demo shortly to simply country to
make to make it easier for them to
contribute to that website you don't
need to even know who created that
website as long as website is on ipfs
and is using either IP NS or dns link
you will be able to co-host it and yep
so we the over over arching idea is to
kinda to use this spec for
experimentation and then maybe start
with implementation so the first
implementation is the command-line tool
which is easier to play with and easier
to change
the future but at some point we would
like to introduce those integrations
into our browser extension which is a
diva's companion which means when you go
to distribute Wikipedia there would be
like user interface element which lets
you simply add Wikipedia to your
co-hosting website or any other website
another thing is how to make sure those
websites are updated kept up to date in
the background we are thinking maybe we
could make ipfs desktop periodically
check each site you have in your
co-hosts Inc roster other than update
and if it's like a full snapshot website
which you want to do full snapshots of
it would like prefetch that website for
you but at this point we only have this
command line tool which I want to demo
shortly you eat a node app you can
install it from from NPM it's called
ipfs co-host and i believe i should be
able to demo it here yep so you've seen
nothing so the idea is okay I want to
add website dog's IP of SiO 2 micro
hosting websites to micro hosted website
so maybe I'll show you available
commands yep so basically comments are
you
you can add website you can remove
website you can lift website you are
co-hosting you can change the type of
co-hosting between this lazy type and
full type if you let's say you have
small discs then you move to a bigger
one you you may want to switch to full
or maybe you decide oh this website is
not that important to me I'll start
doing the I snapshot you can change the
tag here
that's a sync command which goes through
every website and
check see there's a newer version and if
so it stretches it and update your
co-hosting directories you can add it to
like cron or some periodical schedule
your machine is doing so it happens in
the background and also things like IP
us that could have that as an option at
some point in the future and running out
of space you can remove all snapshots
apart from like that last one is that
syncing to the most recent version a
thing that's new to this tool or a thing
that if something is on IP NS or DNS
link right now that's the thing that
already happens that if we think we
check ipfs either we check TNS or we
check DNS link if there is an updated
version and by updated version we mean
oh if the latest snapshot different than
the one we have right now it may be
better if I like illustrators so it's
active as co-hosts say I want to add
dogs at FS IO and let's say I added this
as lazy there are pretty emojis here but
not on Linux during mind stuff all right
so I've added what happened here I have
ipfs daemon running on my machine that
is like I give a desktop guide if s
whatever you have you can see that the
tool fetch entire dogs ipfs IO
it results it to this content ID and
entire website takes seven megabytes in
size but it did not start and I think
cause it was like a lazy version and if
I go to web UI files you can see I have
in files hosting directory created and
if I go there I have full and legit sub
directories and if I go to lazy
I have a domain name of the website I'm
co-hosting and if I go into dogs IP FSI
oh I have a timestamp of the latest
snapshot that's only one snapshot
because I just added it and if I go
inside that snapshot it's basically the
website and I can even see the HTML even
more I can copy hash and probably
probably browse it but more or less the
idea is that you have access to snapshot
using web UI and at the same time you
are contributing to co-hosting that
website another cool thing is that you
don't need to use command line tool if
you decide that you don't care about
this website you can simply remove it
here and it's no longer lazy co-hosted
is there a reason that this needs to be
split at the folder level between full
and lazy because it feels like as an end
user I would want to see the domains
right here not a full yep
that's a that's a very good question a
question and kind of open one yeah
Richard I also am interested in that
question but I think I wore in teresting
in answering it from a different
perspective which is I don't think an
end user should ever see this screen oh
yeah I'm super excited about this work
because I think it lays the foundation
for higher level user flows like you're
in a browser and you hit a button that
says I want to co-host this website oh
yeah and then later you can unstart
co-host and a user never has to
understand that ipfs is even involved at
all or care necessarily and we have
maybe higher level visual design
guidelines for
what the repercussions are of your
browser being a server that is serving
content whether in site BFS or any other
distributed protocol so I think I think
this isn't I'm super excited about this
work because it lays the foundation for
other actual end user tools of which I
think I PFS web UI is an IP FS user tool
not necessarily a web user tool at this
point I think oh you went once these
kind of conventions are tested out and
we have a better understanding of what
does lazy actually make sense it's
actually saying this will be destroyed
at some point it's not really lazy so
there's a whole bunch of other things
that are probably need to be
communicated through there as well but
this is an early experiment and trying
to figure out what is the right what
maybe what's the right language what's
the right pattern do we need lower-level
protocol support for things like this or
is a convention at the mmm fest level
okay is that is that a coarse enough
tool for us to experiment with but I
would say from an end-user standpoint
this is all still very very far from oh
yeah I kind of I started with the most
boring part especially to highlight the
fact that it's like very very unusable
to end user because you should think
about this as an early experimentation
of the simplifying our API or like
simplifying those concepts
to the point we can make a library from
them and then we can build a user
interface around them and to illustrate
that there's a full and lazy
subdirectory here mostly to make it
easier for people who started playing
with this command-line tool to quickly
understand
oh those snapshots are full snapshots
those snapshots are part partial however
the end user the end user goes to this
website right and the end user can click
in like ipfs companion or click here and
they see option to pin this this is how
it looks today right you go to a website
bit and you can pin this website what
does that mean and that's the entry
point which we will eventually want to
replace with co-hosting but all those
details I just mentioned in the past
like 10 minutes are differences between
full and lazy conventions for
directories those are low-level things
those are high-level things given
existing API stuff those are super low
level things from the user perspective
people won't ever interact with them
unless they really care about oh I've
seen some picture on that website
I think I'm co-hosting it I'll go to web
UI and traverse the three three and see
that picture again right the idea is to
replace this element here pin ipfs
resource right now if I click on this it
will pin entire website recursively
and that's it there's actually no UI for
browsing all the websites I spin and if
it's a Wikipedia which is 650 gigabyte
it will be either file in the background
or it will I constantly try to pin it
you don't know because we don't even
have an API for tracking that and that's
the mostly that's the key purpose of
this experimentation to even to identify
those missing pieces to create user
interfaces that we want because if we
have here option contribute or like
co-host this website or something like
that and when you click that you should
not be prompted to big between full and
lazy there should be at the seat like
safe default or some heuristic we can
tell that your node has this store like
this limit of storage and if website is
over the limit it should either pick
lazy by default or inform user hey you
don't have storage to host a full
snapshot but you can host away it like
the opportunistic or latest action even
the language we are trying to invent
here lazy and full it's just like
temporary language we invented so we
kind of start a discussion about those
concepts here I fully fully fully agree
that it's not end at end users and this
tool is mostly to illustrate the idea
but the goal is to eventually either
take this set of conventions of keeping
stuff on amethyst or maybe we will
create a new coral PI's but this way we
can iterate faster without qlik the long
process of changing correctly is we can
like use NFS called build conventional
top of NFS
see what works see what does not you
just bacteria you just identified that
Oh
lazy wives there I would expect those
domains yes totally and that was like
one of those discussions we had should
we should we like put domains here and
have like a flag inside of a directory
so let's say if I have like lazy oh I
will move it I need to add it again
I would I would yeah I think looking at
looking at that list is more like
looking at when you open your browser it
actually or like so your IP fest repo is
in a hidden directory in your user
directory or your browser profile is
also you know in the application support
directory or in hidden directory in your
operating system and I I think that this
is really what we're looking at is kind
of the contents of that hidden directory
and that's probably the best corollary
to think about and also keep in mind
that right now we just dropped it into
co-hosting directory in web UI however
if it becomes a thing this that could be
like a special director which is not on
this regularly it could have a different
user interface which is more around the
concept of co-hosting and things like
that so it's just like a conversation
starter more than actually usable thing
and once again it's like experiment in
mfsb well I think I think it's cool is -
is that really displace the strength and
power of having that filesystem virtual
file system so and to some extent it
talks about the strength and power and
actually just using a file system
instead of a repo and that's one of the
when people contrast dat an IP FS ipfs
seems a little opaque from a developer
standpoint even because everything is
hidden away inside this repo even in a
git repo you're still talking about a
repo but really working directly with
file system and ipfs is really different
in that way because that repo is that
black box and you're not working
directly with the contents of the files
you're taking them and putting them in
the fridge and then you close the fridge
door and then you open up the fridge and
you pull something out then you close
the fridge door again so your visibility
as a developer or designer of the sum
total of things that are in the fridge
is always obscured by that door and
that's how kind of how I see this type
of issue so the power of having that
file system view what m FS provides that
mutable thought what we call medium file
system other people just call daily
reality what they have all the time is
is that it gets us a little bit closer
to be able to do this type of
experimentation
and the fact that that you know Lytle
and and hak-kan and oli can use that MF
s abstraction be able to come up with
these types of conventions that allow us
to play with higher level application
patterns like would ya a little bit
closer at least to what a user just
wants to do I want I want a Wikipedia
extension that I know if I have that
extension installed it just auto saves
the Wikipedia pages I've been - it
serves those like that that's really
what I want to do is user I don't care
about any of this stuff right so this
gets us a little bit closer to the point
and be able to say do something like
that will you take the core of I'm
envisioning you know broad strokes again
a future where we have maybe a share or
a send or a save or republish extension
not an ipfs extension so something that
translates to what user needs are a
little bit more directly and the
experiments like this are fantastic
because they help us kind of envision
what what those opportunities and those
permutations might be adding to that - I
think it's really I love the fact that
it's path based so stuff like that when
you you're not only talking about like
cross language at that point you can
potentially have like cross application
utilizing the same data as well so when
you're talking about like send and
receive and stuff like that the in my
mind that's that's where I'm going of
like oh it's really cool that we can
just have this convention that is shared
across multiple applications like that
that's really cool
if someone figured out how to host on
ipfs a website that was more dynamic
like a single page application or
something and dealt with whatever you
have to deal with with hash rubbing and
all that jazz would that then be able to
be co-hosted like this too or would it
run into extra bumps the reason I asked
is like if you're thinking about an
application where like you put whatever
you want in the URL and then it was
sucking in data from an API or something
how are you predicting all of the
possible permutations you know what I
mean oh yeah yep so that's by going back
to the like general question okay so
stuff on IPF ifs is great for immutable
static websites how do you introduce
mutability in general I think that's
sort of like separate it's like not
specific to co-hosting but like
co-hosting is mostly about about keeping
those initial assets you need to fetch
to bootstrap the dynamic web app the
dynamic web app could be like jeaious
which uses CRD T's or some other magic
to introduce like mutability and
persistence of mutated start state
somehow however to boots to like boot
that web app you need to fetch those
static assets and that's what you would
be co-hosting so the next person that
wants to visit that website for the
first time needs to fetch those static
assets and you will be one of peers that
provide them yeah I think that's
separate kind of separate discussion
from hosting my sort of like the default
use case I have is most like Wikipedia
cuz that's a very good example of each
case when you have a very valuable like
universally valuable website to a lot of
people but at the same time it's too big
too
we start on a single website you may
have subsets of people who care about
different subsets of this website and
that how can we create UI or some
conventions for people seamlessly
contributing a fund wave and and storage
without actually making any decision so
I totally agree that we the decision
between like lazy and full that should
be like hidden from the user those are
the cloud level primitives the challenge
here is to how to frame the language the
user interface and like entire like
interactions or maybe even like the
lifecycle of the data so someone
published with a single snapshot of
Wikipedia how that single snapshot can
be co-hosted by a group of people who
actually have no central coordination
people just care about subsets on that
website so that's what what I find it
really exciting and it's even if it's
pretty simple it already opened a lot of
new venues for thinking and also
probably it identifies problems with our
api's even the fact that we are not able
to track preload of huge websites such
as Wikipedia you have 650 gigabytes and
we are not able to track progress we may
be wherever of that problem but it's
highlighted by by this experiment that
if we want to build user interfaces we
would have to add api's that give you
give us a better insight of blocks tour
so people would want to people need to
know what part of Wikipedia I have
stored on my local disk right what
percentage of that 650 gigabytes
I already have cached locally
those are like hard problems not only
like technically but also like how to
communicate that some prior arts like
some prior art can be found in like
BitTorrent or other peer-to-peer sharing
apps they have some they're a bit much
better on showing what's happening how
much data you already have locally who's
fetching from you and things like that
but yeah that's a co-host expect I don't
mostly wanted to put it there to mention
that we started experimenting we put a
pulse on this so it stays like this at
least until 2020 but I believe it's at
the point when it's worth playing we got
this common line to really still
recently that's why I wanted to lemon
cool thank you yes dietrich is this web
bundles when you
yeah yeah so I was at chrome dev summit
yesterday and the day before was the
first day and they announced web bundles
previously Google's been talking about
the web packaging specification and the
set of related technologies they were
using it initially as a standardization
approach towards their amp efforts which
are somewhat controversial but also are
interestingly they have a characteristic
with regards to the web security model
that is kind of closer to what ipfs is
doing in terms of the separation of
content from location the way web
packaging was initially set up was the
idea that you could or communicate it
was the idea that you can take say
portions of your website as as replayed
HTTP requests bundle those up sign that
bundle of HTTP requests and the assets
that the server would respond with with
these certificates that you have for
your domain your SSL cert and then take
that bundle and put it on Google servers
and then Google could serve that set of
pages from their way from their servers
to your users very very quickly and you
would still have the nice little
security UI in the browser that says
that you are at that actual website say
Terry's website even though that website
that is Terry's website came from a zip
file that was signed and sitting on
Google servers so it is a implementation
of a web technology that actually does
separate content from location to some
extent but the encryption pathway that
it uses in the and the security model
that it assumed at the end I mean a
rendering of that website the browser it
still works perfectly under the security
model of the web today so in some ways
in broad strokes similar the separation
of content from location but in the
actual emulation still stays within the
paradigm of the web security model as we
understand it web bundles is
the kind of next follow on follow on
step from the original specification
where you can package all the different
assets into one bundle and lital
actually has been kind of tracking him
and Jim pick been tracking looking this
technology for a really long time but
because it's a offline friendly
technology that was announced in its
current form yesterday I thought it
might be worth bringing up here ensuring
with people and getting people's
thoughts on or I'm very least
introducing people to the fact that it
exists and may be implemented at some
point as a standard by default in Chrome
or a technology by default in Chrome not
standard into some other bells mechanism
um a swain again how it's nothing
friendly you can we're talking about
like normal web sites on the north
normal internet rate normal web sites on
the normal internet you can bundle up
and in there on their web page they
actually share a demo with I'll share
this here's the web page for it getting
started with bundles on their fancy new
website web dev and leave here's a
visual aid all of your web resources
bundled up into one fancy looks looking
looks like an installable package just
interesting
however this visual representation is
not not helpful in that it doesn't
portray the fact that these are
essentially HTTP resources not just
static assets so it's almost it's like a
bundle that contains a tape and that
tape is a log of the HP exchange back
and forth between a client or server and
you replay those so it's not actually as
opposed as this visualization and this
shows but it's the high level it kind of
works that way but the demo they have
here is interesting in that it is a web
bundle between a game shared between two
phones that are sharing it over I think
web Bluetooth in this one but basically
any you can do it over a local subnet or
you could if there's a way that you
could actually get
these two chrome browsers that have web
mentals enabled and implemented you can
share a website basically offline the
entirety of it but I'm not gonna play
that video right now well your it looks
like Michael already put the URL on the
notes so if you want to check it out
speaking of the notes I've been
attempting to take notes but anyone who
has actually shared something should go
back and fix the notes so they're
accurate because I tend to butcher them
a little cool and then was this one new
Dietrich the recipes yes
magic so a couple of people that I that
you know that being being somebody who
worked in web stuff for a long time did
ever all for a long time people reach
out to me like aphrodite FS to meet my
needs I and so one person in particular
reached out and he commented on one of
the local not fine issues I think with
some use cases around work he's doing in
Southeast Asia one of these has worked
for a UNICEF at a Bangladeshi displaced
people's camp where everybody's got a
smartphone in this in this camp but the
internet access is very poor the quality
is low the bandwidth is low the network
goes up and down but within the camp
there's a lot of interpersonal sharing
of resources so they have things like
they've tried to set up like local media
web servers and things like that
but he's so he's is it's almost like a a
a partial offline use case and he said
the number one is because a lot of the
people in this camp are also not
literate the number one use case they
have is for local distribution of media
photos and videos and there are not a
lot of applications that will support
that and he said you know he's he's not
a programmer but he's technical enough
and he's been running open source
workshops for years like I met him in
Hanoi in 2010 where he was spending a
Saturdays running who Mbutu
accessibility trainings for just that
because he thought it was great and
people need to know it just really
awesome person who's long long long done
this kind of work and
knows that the number-one problem he has
for these contracts for this work that
he's doing for yourself is DNS
everything in the web is tied to this
remote resolution they were quite like
ah there's all kinds of web stack
technologies that work in a vacuum
offline just fine but ultimately it
comes down to the fact that he needs
that resolution in order for any of this
stuff to work even the stuff that says
it works offline it doesn't work offline
out of the gate out of the box it needs
to make that initial connection even so
everything for him as somebody who's in
the field trying to build the practical
offline applications apks are a million
times better than the web because you
can pretty apks on an SD card and it's
somebody the Android phone will load
them up and install them and the web is
ultimately problematic as long as it
depends on DNS sorry did you say apk
apks yes file format which is the
package of an android application oh oh
you can take an Android native
application it is a single file that you
can put on an SD card put that in your
phone and your phone will be able to
open that up and install it as an
application so I again harkening back to
the kind of installable web applications
that that web bundles that we just
talked about or trying to eventually
maybe get to apks already have that form
out kind of form and function standpoint
very very easy and seamless for people
in that regards where it's the web as
long as it has this location based model
that it will always have that constraint
it depends on the network coming up from
a philosophical standpoint there is a
network dependency from step 0 of
initiating web request ipfs does
circumvent this to some extent but of
course we are in that awkward user
experience standpoint of trying to say
well open up the browser the thing that
requires this thing online that general
purpose tool that you use be able to get
to the Internet at large and then put in
this long long string of things so there
we have other problems that we need to
solve but this person asked for
basically higher-level recipes for using
IP fess to do things like media and
image distribution or build applications
that might work offline so I thought
this would be the right place maybe to
ask that can be a community of people
around where we can find those
higher-level application recipes as
sounds really close to something to the
date hope South I have presented some
earlier point in time we could we could
discuss about that I would be interested
to hear more talk to this person if yeah
thanks I will make the introduction
something I know notice over and over is
how all projects in be web space and
also like in the crypto space maybe
crypto notes because they have like Ian
s and solutions but eventually DNS
becomes this single point of failure in
in ended up you look at to let let's say
you've got like the distributed music
player which keeps stuff on dog chain
and stuff like that to actually load the
web app you need to hit DNS first and so
that's sort of like been a recurring
theme we are solving all the like we are
sort of like solving problems along the
way
but this like the first thing remains
the problem and sort of like we've been
having those like those discussions
about is there something we could build
on top of Lippe to p or maybe like bit
additional service exposed by ipfs nodes
to harden or DNS or make it like more
robust somehow basically the idea i
often go back is what tor project is
doing there is a way to basically make
your tor demon to expose dns service on
some poor local port and if you set your
localhost as a DNS
ever then all the DNS requests instead
of going to your local ISP or someone
else go to tor network and come out at
random exit node and that exit node does
the lookup and then the response goes
through tor network back to you so it's
obviously super slow but if you are like
caching those record results records
locally you only the first time you
request for domain will be so and then I
wonder if there's anything we could do
better in IP Affairs given the fact that
instead of relying on a single node to
make a lookup for you
perhaps we could ask a subset of peers
that we are connected to hey can you
resolve this for me this DNS thing and
then you get let's say 20 responses 50
responses and then you can tell oh like
10% of those responses give me different
IP why is that that could be because
they get like closer closer IP because
of Joe location for that specific peer
DNS may return a closer IP but also it
could be an effect of like blocking at
the DNS level like censorship stuff like
that and then if you gather those like
let's say 20 50 responses you can tell
okay I need like a quorum like 50 plus
1% to actually successfully resolve a
DNS address so just like a an idea what
is the if there is because I feel there
is a need to actually maybe not even we
are not able to like immediately replace
DNS because it it's been around for a
long long time and will be it's a very
well understood spec there are clients
which speak it well both
tcp/udp and like HTTP so there's the
idea that if we expose DNS service the
card and DNS service as a feature maybe
of the p2p or IP house could that be
useful in the context that should
describe the trick because in that
environment perhaps connectivity to DNS
was limited but maybe if that person was
connected to like 50 peers in that
specific country or place
someone could have that record in their
cache just like just just might mean
using around yeah I really like that
from a from a rola like robustness and
reliability like I'm thinking about the
worst possible Network scenario that
seems to be a a good characteristic of a
reliable using using p2p to do something
like bolster the reliability and
robustness of a of a DNS like technology
I think it it's really different the
type the type of kind of like blue sky
what what are the characteristics of how
do we design a new internet protocol
from scratch with characteristics like
that built in I think we still wouldn't
end up with something like DNS we might
end up with some some kind of fallback
mechanism like that but when you talk
about kind of like what the what the
like golden the ideal path through would
be like there there are ultimately just
better ways of doing that but as far as
a way of bolting on some more
reliability onto a system that is deeply
ingrained in every almost every layer of
a lot higher parts of application
development yeah like even the diffuse
ipfs based music app I downloaded the
desktop version and of course requires
me to make an HTTP connection even for
the ipfs part it only works if I can
actually get cores to their website and
just just to be clear even if we don't
expose this as a service to other apps
we lacked all is doing effectively that
you can point any the app that wants to
resolve DNS at this port and it acts as
a DNS server even if we don't expose it
as an external service we still could
use it to harden a DNS link websites
because instead of basically relying on
the DNS that is returned by your
operating system we could add this
additional readability layer to DNS
linked websites and say I need this like
sort of like a quorum or because in case
of DNS link we don't care about a record
so this case when DNS returns you IP
that's closer to you it's no longer a
case the only type of records we care
for DNS linked websites is txt and that
one should be universal and if someone
is sending you a different DNS link and
everyone else is sending as something
else that may be because that one has
more up-to-date version but it's more
likely that someone is doing man in the
middle at the DNS level and if you ask
more and then a single DNS server then
you are able to mitigate those types of
attacks or DNS acquire
sites work in an offline environment
because someone you are already
connected to has record cached even if
uplink is down when I saw that issue
that was posted we have had a number of
discussions at offline camp about either
stuff in refugee camps or disaster
recovery a lot of it involving like mesh
networking so there are articles both
existing on the offline can't medium of
publication and supposedly coming soon
from some of the folks who were just
there like we had a refugee camp
discussion and we had a building for a
load of middle income countries
discussion so there may be some new
stuff coming out with those angles
so we have seven minutes is there
anything else people likes general today
to play the jeopardy theme song for
seven minutes
No
all right well it's very cool well thank
you for the Domino's very interesting to
see so if we were to like right now we
are off of our schedule because we did
the second Wednesday instead of the
third if we were to go back to our
normal schedule it would be Wednesday
December 18th which is one week before
Christmas I don't know how many folks
are taking super long vacations and how
many people would still be around on the
18th I'd probably still be here does
that say you can't seem reasonable
people yeah okay all right we will get
back on that schedule then and I think
just for the sake of reducing admin
workload I'm gonna switch it's been like
a different issue per meeting but I'm
just gonna switch it back to one issue
and change the name so it reflects the
time of the meeting so I will just make
anyone that will keep forever and keep
updating so if anybody has ideas for
future events as always there will be
some kind of issue there that you can
drop them in and we can keep updating
the same agenda here with the next time
so I will see everybody in a month ish
or some of you next week some person see
you later